misc unix tools (#18)
pulibrary/command_line_curriculum: sec5/du.md

## du: Disk usage

The `du` command tells us how much disk space is used by files. The format of the `du` command is:

```bash
du [options] directoryname
```

> `du` without any options will show you the amount of space in each subdirectory and the total disk usage. This useful when trying to locate unneeccessary and large files in your directory. These results using pipes can be save a list of the largest files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`du` without any options will show you the amount of space in each subdirectory and the total disk usage. This is useful when trying to locate unneccessary and large files in your directory. These results using pipes can be saved as a list of the largest files.
```

```bash
du --help
du -h ~/Desktop
du -sh ~ | sort -n > ~/diskusage
```

You can install a reimplementation of du on your VM with the following commands:

```bash
sudo deb-get install du-dust
```

The `dust` application can be used like this as shown on the [Github Repository](https://github.com/bootandy/dust):

```bash
Usage: dust
Usage: dust <dir>
Usage: dust <dir>  <another_dir> <and_more>
Usage: dust -p (full-path - Show fullpath of the subdirectories)
Usage: dust -s (apparent-size - shows the length of the file as opposed to the amount of disk space it uses)
Usage: dust -n 30  (Shows 30 directories instead of the default [default is terminal height])
Usage: dust -d 3  (Shows 3 levels of subdirectories)
Usage: dust -D (Show only directories (eg dust -D))
Usage: dust -F (Show only files - finds your largest files)
Usage: dust -r (reverse order of output)

> Usage: dust -H (si print sizes in powers of 1000 instead of 1024)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usage: dust -H (see print sizes in powers of 1000 instead of 1024)
```
